Hi everyone, James here. This week's podcast is a compilation.
It's all the little bits from the last year of Fish,
which didn't quite fit in a show,
but they're kind of self-contained little nuggets,
and we put them all together for a little best-off show.
I really hope you enjoy it.
We'll be back next week with a normal show,
but in the meantime, happy new year.
[CHEERS]
Do you know what it would or what would it be?
Do you know what it would be?
[CHEERS]
Something that these do that people think is impossible is fly.
And so it's constantly claimed that they defy the laws of physics,
and it's because an entomologist in 1934 wrote a book in which he said,
"I have applied to insects, the laws of air resistance,
and I've arrived at the conclusion that their flight is impossible."
And it's not impossible, obviously,
but the way they do fly is not by flapping their wings up and down,
it's by flapping them back and forth.
So they go from front to back,
and it's kind of like the motion of rowing, I think.
So imagine if you put your hands out and your palm faces the ground,
and then you move your arms forward with your palm facing the ground,
and then when you get your arm in front of you,
you flip your hand over so your palms facing upwards,
and you move your arm back, and then they fly with that motion.
So they're doing backstroke?
Is that you must do a really weird backstroke, Dan?
It's a bit more like the butterfly.
Yeah.
Yes, it is more like the butterfly.
But it's not.
Oh, OK.
And that creates kind of vortexes which reduces pressure above their wings
and means they can fly, but isn't that cool?
That's very cool.
They float like a butterfly.
And stick like a bee.
So was it just a bee?
How would I leave?
Yeah.
I was actually thinking about this phrase yesterday,
because I saw a really good play about him.
But butterflies don't really float.
I mean, they fly, right?
They don't just sit motionless in the air with their wings hanging.
I just think it was a bit of a fraud statement.
But I think really it was more--
it was like a poem, wasn't it, really?
It was just a thing that he said, and it scam nicely.
And yeah.
I just-- it wasn't really biologically accurate enough.
You want to be what float like a log?
Like a log thing?
And I could be-- it would be much like a boxer, yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
Imagine if a hoverdolly had a few pedantic friends like you
and you know, when he was like, I've got this new line.
I'm not sure.
Can we go for the log one?
I'm going to do the butterfly.
OK.
On your head, bit, now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Early weather forecastes would steam on wet days,
on television.
What do you mean steam their maps?
No, their clothes would steam, gently.
Yeah.
I saw that, but I didn't understand why.
Was it the heat of the--
No, it was the heat of the lights, because they
had been outdoors before.
Oh, they weren't like, it's going to be foggy tomorrow.
Just credit to give it a bit of atmosphere.
No, they would-- no, it was just on the hot lights
in the BBC studios.
But I didn't know this either.
The Met Office is, or until recently,
was, part of the Ministry of Defense,
as a sort of affiliated body.
And so in the early days of weather forecast on the TV,
the weather charts were drawn up at what
was called the air ministry.
And then they were rolled up, and they
were put in a taxi to the BBC.
So you could have lost the weather, if you tried.
That's good.
I like this from George Cowling, who
was the BBC's first weather forecaster, who
said that there were a few breakthrough moments where he
realized he was really nailing it, because weather forecaster
were really, really boring before the '50s,
when he sort of transformed them.
And he said, there was one time, quite early,
into weather forecasting, where he predicted the weather.
And he said, rain would reach north Wales
in the northwest coast of England around lunchtime,
the following day.
And he got a telegram from a viewer the next day saying,
well done, rain arrive Liverpool, one o'clock.
Slam dunk, mate.
Absolutely nailed that one.
There's a company called Celeb for a day, which
offers on-demon paparazzi services
that you pay up to one and a half grand.
And they'll just have a team of photographers
wait outside, whichever venue you're going to that night,
and pretend that you're famous and shout out our questions
for you.
Oh, do that.
That's not weird.
I was at a minor ward so many once, and left,
as the paparazzi were there.
And you could kind of hear them all for about a millisecond,
start snapping their things, and then
realise that I wasn't someone famous,
and it was like an audible--
Scrooing back of lens caps, I think.
When Daniel Acliffe was performing in a play in the West End,
he wore the same outfit as he left the theatre every night
six months.
So the paparazzi's photos weren't worth anything,
so they looked like they were the same.
I thought it was quite clever.
Oh, that's quite clever, yeah.
But they could report on how bad he was smelling.
More in the flies every night.
So a study was done this year that found
that in 20% of scientific papers on genetics,
there are mistakes because Excel reformats gene names
into dates.
Oh, my god.
That's great.
It's one-fifth of papers, and that's
because genes have names like M-A-R-1, or D-E-C-1, or O-C-T-4.
So they all look to Excel like a date.
And so in one-fifth of papers, this is a mistake.
And also, you know that thing in Excel,
where if you try to undo it once it's reformatted it to a date,
it then corrects to how it stores dates internally.
So for instance, if you are dealing with gene, which
is M-A-R-C-H-1, March 1, which is membrane-associated ring
finger, C-3-H-C-4-1, as you all knew.
That's it.
It's a classic gene.
It is, it really is.
Excel reformats it to make it first of March.
And then if you hit undo, it then makes it 42430,
because that's how it stores the first of March in a state of Bay.
So all these poor geneticists are going,
no, it's a bloody gene.
And Excel's going, no, I think you mean the fifth of May.
One recent experiment I saw done with mice
is they gave it a molecule called I-S-R-I-B,
and it makes them smarter.
And they reckon this might be a molecule
you can give to humans to make them smarter.
OK, how can they tell that it makes them smarter?
Because I've seen bitching in the scientific community
about the fact that mice are the idiots of the rodent world
to the genius of rats.
So are they trying to make them compete with rats?
In what way are they smarter?
In quiz.
[LAUGHTER]
In quiz environment.
No, it's the basic way of seeing how smarter
mouse is by putting an underwater platform in a pool of water
and then putting the mouse in and seeing how long it takes
into finding the platform.
I see.
But that sounds very like testing for witches.
Yeah.
But then when it gets to the platform,
you do burn it as a witch.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There's a massive list of hundreds and hundreds of foods
on Wikipedia that are named after people.
There's only two that really caught my eye.
One is that Van Gogh has a potato named after him.
Wow.
But also, Jesus has only one food.
Really?
And only one.
And we learned that Donald Trump has two named after him
in his Thanksgiving dinner that he had last month.
Two of the dishes served were named after him.
Yeah.
It was a chocolate cake, wasn't it?
Chocolate cake and a salad.
Yeah.
So he had the Trump salad and the massive racist chocolate
cake.
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Have you guys been about this guy, Claude Ruggeri?
No.
So Claude Ruggeri was an Italian who was living in Paris in 1806.
And according to Marshall Space Flight Center,
he used to send animals into space on balloons.
I think-- oh, no.
So he sent animals onto space in his own homemade rockets.
And then they were recovered by a parachute.
I don't know where they were when they were recovered.
They were really healthy, actually.
Apparently, French authorities halted
Ruggeri's plans when they came to suggest
launching a small boy using a rocket cluster.
You do see occasional stories of someone
who's tied a lot of balloons to a chair and flies up.
You've washed up by picks up.
Oh, yeah.
No, no, no, is that true?
Yeah, no, you see people trying it.
And then they shoot a balloon to bring themselves down again.
It's not inconceivable that he would have done that
and assumed because he never saw them again.
They must have kept going out.
I mean, how long till the first person, who
was just a normal person, worked out
that when they let a balloon off into the air,
that it did pop and come back down,
you would just assume that I would assume.
It would just keep going.
They didn't really have balloons for quite a long time.
No, that's true.
Yeah.
They had bladders.
They have helium?
No, no, no, no.
I would be hot, I wouldn't know.
They would use their light fire on them.
Yeah, they didn't really isolate helium
till quite late on.
OK, so there goes that theory.
Pop goes that, too.
[LAUGHS]
Ew.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
More than words that I would use that you guys will never use.
Like, for instance, I would say,
Ginnel for a path between two houses.
And I would use that--
I mean, I don't use it every day.
But every time I walk--
every time I walk through a Ginnel, I would use that word.
You would say-- because you constantly say out loud
the things you're doing as you're doing.
Yeah.
And I am from London.
I will constantly say things like liberal elite media
bubble.
But not really, because it's like in the same way
fish don't have a word for water.
Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Just a little thing about the Guinness Book of Records.
Oh, yeah.
That's been going for a long time.
It's first compiled by two brothers,
Norris and Ross McWirter.
And someone had a bet about what was the fastest bird.
And they decided to put down this group
of older records in the world.
The first one, it took them 16 weeks.
And they sent loads of letters to experts
and consultants around the world.
But the problem was that people would just
exaggerate all the time.
And so they got a letter from the guy in Africa
saying that they'd measured the flight of a fly at 820 miles
an hour, twice the speed of seconds.
And this guy wanted them to put that in as the world's fastest
flight.
Well, and they just heard the buzzing reach them
10 minutes off of the fly at past.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Just one really interesting ecosystem that exists,
and that's really important, is whale fall.
So I didn't know about this, but whale carcasses
are really important habitats as well to other creatures.
And not many of them have been found.
But basically, when whales die, then creatures
live in them on the bottom of the ocean.
We haven't found many.
But when we do, we tend to find new species on them.
So first of all, a bunch of scavengers
live inside the whale carcasses and eat all the flesh off them.
And then these bone-boring animals come along.
So for instance, we found a new species of bone-boring worm
in 2005, living in a whale carcass.
And it's called the boneting snot flower, which--
Yeah.
And it was really cool, because the reason it's called that
is because it looks like a flower.
It's backside looks like a flower, as it pokes out of the bone,
as it's gnawing into it.
And then after the bones have been eaten, then bacteria
comes along, and then other stuff comes and feeds on that.
So they create these really vital ecosystems, whale carcasses.
That's like, I was reading an article about ocean animals
that live purely on land-based food.
So logs, when logs and plants go into the ocean,
and 90% of the animals that are found in these logs
aren't found anywhere else on any other bit of coral
or wherever in the ocean, that's their living place.
90% so they just have to wait for another log to fall in.
And some of them are a really long way in the ocean.
They're not coastal, you know?
It's mad, you know?
You can see why people used to think that animals just
came from nowhere, because you would find a log there,
and suddenly there were tons of animals.
Yes.
And people thought that they would just come from rotten logs
or whatever.
So that's why, you know, the Tathanlyle image
is the lion with a load of bees flying out of it.
Oh, that's the famous Tathanlyle image.
That's because they thought that bees
would generate it spontaneously from lion coccasers.
The idiots.
I was reading about elephant penises,
and they sound very, very cool.
They use their penis to swat away flies.
Really?
Yeah, and also, if they have an itch on their belly,
they'll just use their penis to itch their belly.
No, we all do that, Dan.
I can use it to itch.
You know, that bit of the back that you can't quite reach.
You can't, you can't.
Did you know, I just had no idea about this.
Colin Powell wanted to run for president in the '90s, in 1996,
and he decided not to, because his wife was too worried
that he would be assassinated by white supremacists.
Yeah.
And that's the thing that Michelle Obama said,
she had to be really talked into when Obama wanted to run
was the risk of being assassinated or harmed by white supremacists.
Yes.
Talk around.
And there was an assassination attempt on Obama,
which barely anyone knows about, because the secret service
didn't notice it until four days later.
And it wasn't even them who noticed.
It was one of the usherers, one of the house cleaning staff
at the White House, when they saw that one of the windows
had gun bullets fired through it.
No, one of the windows is smashed.
Yeah, and they had no idea.
And they eventually caught the guy.
He's in jail now, he's serving 25 years.
And they found bullet holes.
Yeah, in the White House, they had no idea.
In the whole days, it's a long time to go, nooo.
The man who developed the noise, the reversing noise,
the beep, beep, beep.
The first.
The first, not that, actually, is the actual beep.
His name is Chris Hansen Abbot.
He developed it in the 1970s, and it's used all over the world now.
And he regrets that sound, and because he says
that everyone finds it really annoying, and he hates it.
So he developed a new one, which is sort of,
and it sounds a bit like C wave's crashing in the sea,
but in short bursts.
And now that he's trying to get that adopted,
and it's beginning to be used.
Surely the whole point of that is it's annoying.
Yeah, exactly.
You don't want to have your alarm going off in the morning,
and it's just beautiful, relaxing waves.
No, this is it.
It's supposed to attract attention,
and it's easy to recognize and to work out
where the sound is coming from.
But that's slightly different from being annoying.
So he regrets it, he made it too effective and too annoying,
and now he's trying to make one that does the same job,
but is less intrusive, enjoy it.
I think the speaking person is way more annoying.
Real cool, reversive.
Yeah, for me, that's, I know, that's what the beep has told me.
Or I like the ones where you've got the money trucks,
and they're like, please, help, help, I am under attack.
Please call the police.
Have you seen those?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I've never heard the noise, though.
It's literally a person just shouting that,
and it's a recording of a person saying, help, help.
I am under attack.
So when you heard that was the thing being actually attacked.
Well, he was one trying to steal from me.
Yeah.
They also eat these cells, jellyfish.
In times of need, they eat their own bodies.
And because they can survive with a small portion of their bodies,
that's OK.
So I think a jellyfish of 18 centimeters
can degrow to be 1.4 centimeters and then grow back again.
Wow.
It's cool, right?
Is it when they're stressed as well?
Because octopus is true their own arms when they're really stressed.
It's not nice.
No, just when they're hungry, they're not very anxious creatures.
You wouldn't think there would be a net gain of eating yourself, though, would you?
If I eat my finger, I'm still going to be the same weight as I was before I ate the finger.
But you won't be hungry.
So it's a short-term strategy.
[LAUGHTER]
I've got one last thing that I really like,
which is the Lord of the Rings, the main characters of Lord of the Rings,
the actors in real life, to celebrate the amazing time that they had.
They all got a tattoo, which was of Elfish for nine.
Everyone got it except for Gimli, who didn't want to get it.
So he got his stunt double to get it instead.
[LAUGHTER]
And he did.
He's not at his stunt doubles like this random guy, he's a part of the character.
Have you seen my tattoo?
Let me just bring him up, take a look.
[LAUGHTER]
One thing about Donald Trump as well.
So he-- you know, he's been the story in the papers this week.
He's made this enormous loss in his taxes.
The year he did this 1995, 2% of net operating losses
occurred by American taxpayers in that year was Donald Trump.
[LAUGHTER]
Yes.
500,000 people declared a net operating loss,
and he was 2% of the entire sum.
Do you know that his-- that's why it makes sense
that if you look at his tax records, which were published in The New York Times,
the figures are a bit off-kilter.
So the first two digits are the 900 and something million.
They're extremely off-kilter.
That's because the tax software couldn't take a figure of that large.
So his accountant had to add it manually afterwards with a typewriter.
Wow.
Because it was not rigged to be working in the hundreds of millions in terms of losses.
It is one of the most dangerous jobs in America.
Assassinating a president.
No, being a president.
Well, also assassinating presidents, probably.
Yeah.
Quite a few of them got shot, didn't they?
Yeah, yeah.
You can't really say it's one of the most dangerous jobs in America.
Because it's quite different to what it was 150 years ago, isn't it?
That's true.
We wouldn't say being a troller man is one of the most dangerous jobs in the world.
And then for our evidence, use troller men from the 1400s.
No.
Although it is a very dangerous job.
Yes, it is.
It was actually quite a bad example for me to choose.
I should have written something that's a really safe job now,
but was really dangerous in the 1400s.
Nonetheless, if there was one in 10 charts of me being shot at QI,
I would resign immediately.
But there's not the one in 10 charts.
Well, there is a one in 10 charts of me being shot at QI actually.
That's only because of my brilliant points I keep on making.
So campuses weren't used to tell directions for many, many years
after they were discovered, were they?
They were discovered in China in the 4th century BC, roughly,
or first built in China in the 4th century BC.
And they were used for Feng Shui, essentially.
So they were used for spiritual reasons to decide where to build a house
or where to put your furniture or where to have a tomb.
And yeah, it was many hundreds of years after that.
We learned that we can actually use it to find places.
A modern version.
So satellite dishes all point slightly east of south.
So if you get lost in the city, you can use a dish to work out where north is.
You've got a compass.
Yeah, although if you see someone walking past your house
during your satellite dish, you do call the police
and report a suspected robber in the area.
Which is last, my compass wasn't working.
My satellite dish method has led me to your house.
So your front door is gray.
Another thing in London, at least, and in other big cities.
In the morning, if you're lost, follow the crowd
because they'll take you to a tube station.
And in the evening, go against the crowd
because they're coming from a tube station.
Very good.
It's the other way round.
In the morning, everyone, in the centre of a city,
everyone's walking away from the tube station.
So in the centre, yeah, I see.
I'm thinking, where am I going to be in the morning?
Near my house.
But then, to be honest, I'm not lost in that situation, am I?
But I frequently wake up in the middle of a city centre
and don't know where I am.
What city is it?
What if you're so lost, you can't tell the difference
between the city centre and the outskirts.
So you don't know whether to go with the crowd or away from the crowd.
Just study the number of satellite dishes.
Yeah, that's why we have that back up.
So Newtron stars are trying to be heavy dense.
They weigh the same as half a million earths,
but they would fit into a ball the size of Manhattan.
Cool.
They're so dense.
Have they not followed the sky then?
No.
They are the Rome.
This is really missing done on this podcast.
They are so far away that it's not a problem.
So those are neutron stars.
Magnetars are like super neutron stars.
They are a thousand times stronger.
We only know about 10 of them in our galaxy.
And the field strength is a thousand trillion times stronger
than the Earth's magnetic field.
Thousand trillion.
I know that's just a very, very large number.
Yeah, but what a number.
We can't really.
Yeah.
It's too big.
We can't get it into your head.
We can't be moving on.
But I really like-- so obviously a lot of people
like to attack people who believe in astrology and so on.
And Dave Gorman did the comedian in Britain
for anyone overseas.
Dave Gorman, he did a show where he tried
to follow his horoscope completely to the word for 30 days.
It was a big experiment.
And he was using all sorts of different horoscopes.
But he was largely using the one by Jonathan Caner.
Jonathan Caner was a very famous astrologer for the sun.
I think it was.
Was it the male?
Yeah.
So Gorman suddenly thought, hang on.
I think this guy has caught on onto my act here,
because he just started finding that his particular horoscope
reading was just a bit more advanced.
Did it say you're going to kill him tonight, Dave?
Well, here's one that he had.
So he's a Pisces.
And on one of the days of the entries,
during the experiment, when he knew
that Gorman was doing this, because it was very much publicized,
this was the entry.
Stand on one leg, place a bowl of cereal in your left hand
and a tangerine in your right.
Balance three books on your head and jump up and down.
What do you mean this is difficult?
I haven't finished yet.
Sing the national anthem backwards
and jump into a bucket of water.
While still on one leg, peel the tangerine
and flick the segments into the bowl one at a time.
Why?
What do you mean why?
Why not?
You seem happy enough to take a bunch of other daft orders
for no good reason today?
And that was published in a newspaper.
And Gorman had to do that, because it was part of his experiment.
Absolutely.
Well, as part of his experiment.
It's very strange, because my mum is a Pisces,
and we have always wondered about that morning.
That morning, what happened?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There's an Aussie word that I use that's not translated over here,
which is Khan, C-A-R-N, Khan.
And Khan.
I've heard you say that.
I heard it meant come on.
It does, yeah, but it doesn't get used to,
but back home, it does get used all the time.
But it also, it doesn't mean just come on
in the sense of like, come on, we're late.
It also means come on as in like, oh, come on.
Like, you know, in the scene of the Titanic,
when the guy falls off and he hits the rudder on the way down,
his last word would have been, Khan.
Because that would be a lie.
I lost somethings up there, or that as well.
Yeah.
Falling to my death.
So, yeah, that's a big word that's not yet made out of it.
I haven't seen Titanic.
What?
Well, that's a whole big conversation we don't have to do.
I know about the Titanic.
So, I mean, I figured it's like watching a long documentary
about something I already know about.
I have also not seen it, but I think
that I've seen enough spoofs of it
that I pretty much know everything that happens.
Yeah.
OK, guys.
Aren't you guys cool?
Yeah.
There was, I've seen Titanic, too.
I've seen Titanic, too.
I'm waiting for Titanic, three.
I can't get enough.
He only watched Titanic, one, so he'd understand
the plotline to Titanic, too.
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You know, there's a group of, there's a species of B,
which only lives in abandoned snail shells.
Really?
Yeah, it's a solitary B, obviously.
It doesn't live in a hive.
So, yeah, it's called Ozmiya Bikola.
And this is part of a group of bees called Helika Files,
or Shell Lovers.
And it's so sweet.
So the female lays an egg inside the shell.
And then it fills the rest of it with grains
of sand and pebbles to act as a barricade against intruders.
And then she flies off, and she comes back
with all these dried grass and twigs.
And she covers over this empty snail shell
with her egg in it.
And she glues it together with saliva.
And she makes a little pyramid, basically,
for the egg to rest inside.
And this is so cool.
So this is from a feature on Wired, I found this.
When she flies back holding a twig,
it does look like it's a bee riding a tiny broomstick.
It's amazing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The coolest thing, I think, about snails,
sorry, just quickly, is that they can walk upside down on water.
And this is incredible.
We only just worked out how they do this.
But so essentially, most freshwater snails don't have gills.
They have lungs, so they need to be in open air
to breathe rather than in water.
So some of them, like the apple snail,
which is a common pet, have a little snorkel device,
which they shoot up to the surface, which gets air in.
But a lot of them have a lung, which
they want to be exposed to at all times.
And so they float on top of the water with this lung exposed.
And what they can do is they can turn upside down
and attach themselves to the under surface of the water.
And they use a combination of surface tension.
And then the viscous kind of drag from the slime
that they exude.
And that's just the right balance.
That they can just crawl upside down along the surface
of the under surface of the water.
That is amazing.
It's really cool.
And you reckon they come across other snails
going on the other side.
And they're like, it's my reflection.
Oh, no, it's another thing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Just wanted to let the Pokemon go.
Yeah.
A non-governmental agency in Bosnia
has worn players to be aware of landmines
while trying to have a catch Pokemon.
But also generally, just whenever, whatever you're doing,
be aware of landmines.
That's true.
Yeah, I think the prop-- yeah, you're right.
Actually, you can genetically modify Crest
so that when it's stressed going over landmines,
it changes color.
And that's one way of finding landmines.
Really?
He's bringing it back to that.
But no help for Pokemon finding.
Yeah, no.
And finally, two men in California
ignored warning signs and fell off a cliff when playing Pokemon.
Yeah.
They're OK though, aren't they?
It was a--
That's all in CNN.
And it said that this happened.
And it said that they'd had injuries,
but it was uncertain how bad their injuries were.
But I think maybe it wasn't a massive cliff.
And I hope they're OK.
Oh, wow.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
What do you want?
Because I don't know what about agencies.
I think so, yeah, I can do that.
I don't want to be--
I don't-- I don't want to over-tell story or format.
But it's about caterpillars and silkworms.
Do you know about this?
In the Byzantine Empire, they needed silk.
And it was ruinously expensive, but the silk was produced
in China, and the trade was controlled by the Persians,
who had choked it off.
And so Justinian, the first sent two monks to China
to smuggle out some silkworm eggs, which they did.
They had bamboo walking sticks, which are hollow, you know?
And they made full sort of things inside.
And they smuggled silkworm eggs in their bamboo staves.
And it took them two years to do it and destroyed the monopoly.
And the whole of Byzantine economy
was based on the silkworm industry
from-- they brought back in their bamboo
staves for the next 650 years.
No way.
And then the mulberry leaves that they eat
had to be brought by a different path by some other people.
So it was a real major.
And you see, it's a proper sort of Jason Bourne style thriller,
isn't it, really, being those two monks
and trying to get them to bring a schlep them back
through all the Persians?
Yeah, sort of.
It's a version of the Bourne Islands here in Jamaica.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I was reading a good article in a local Scottish newspaper
about a DIY store in Sterling, which a hedge outside it,
a 30-foot hedge, have been taken over by caterpillars.
And it's turned into this enormous web.
And you should look it up.
It is impressive.
And so they close it off, and they invited people
to come and visit it as a tourist spot.
And the newspaper said that visitors from as far away
as Motherwell have traveled to see the unusual light,
which is, if you're interested, a 40-minute drive
from Sterling.
Yeah.
That's a full 40-minute people travel.
Yeah, it's quite a city.
A more than 40 minutes, you would sort of think.
Is it, could I be bothered?
Yeah, we could have lunch.
Yeah.
The tobacco hawk moth caterpillar.
This is a cool caterpillar.
It has two different walking systems
for different parts of its body.
So it walks normally with its legs.
But then it's gut, which is obviously
on the base of it, walks a step out of sink.
Oh, I think you already do that.
It walks a step ahead.
Yeah, it's bizarre.
They think this is how caterpillars move.
Is their organs move in front of them?
Isn't that amazing?
It's so amazing.
This is in 2010.
They put them on a tiny treadmill.
And I can't find any images of the tiny treadmill
they made for caterpillars.
So, and I, should we photograph this
or we'll take a video for posterity?
No.
Who'd want to see that?
We have the ability to tell the future,
and we don't know why.
In 2012, this meta-analysis was done
of studies from 1975 that looked at 26 experiments,
which show people a series of random images.
So in lots of experiments, they do that for various reasons.
And they'll suddenly put up a scary image,
like a slithering snake with big fangs.
And it found that people are able to tell
between one and 10 seconds in advance
when the snake image is going to come up totally at random.
So they're not primed in any way to tell that.
It sounds completely insane.
People are going to get very angry, I'm saying this.
I know, it sounds like they're kind of shit,
I usually say, but you do.
I don't, this doesn't sound very cruel.
It sounds like nonsense, doesn't it?
But look, they looked at these 26 experiments,
and they said at the end,
the cause of this anticipatory activity,
which undoubtedly does lie within the realm
of natural physical processes, remains undetermined.
So they said it's not supernatural, guys.
But actually, come on, we're able to predict
what scary pictures are coming up.
Because my immediate thought is that the experimenter
is giving something away.
Yeah.
Or the world, just fundamentally similar
that the people who put the order in,
you can kind of predict that just because you're both humans.
So you kind of, you naturally have it.
We naturally have it.
And unrandomizing kind of thing.
The other thing is, if you can predict it
between one and 10 seconds, and they're coming up
every couple of seconds, then you could say,
one's going to come, and you have five chances of it coming.
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
I think, James, I think it's the guy who's doing the experiment
doesn't realize he's going to hate this dragon.
Ready for your next one?
Must stop these researchers from talking to themselves out loud.
But let's keep an open mind and say, maybe it is unexplained.
Yeah, open minds, people.
Yeah.
(upbeat music)
There is a thing about Trump at the Secret Service,
which is that during the election campaign,
they paid him $1.6 million.
Have you heard this?
Oh, yeah.
So that they can fly on his plane.
Well, yeah, when you're a candidate for one
of the two big parties, you get a security detail,
and they have to accompany you everywhere you go.
And they obviously pay for their tickets
because they've got funding.
However, if you're traveling on a plane
owned by the candidate, you have to pay him money.
Yeah, I have to say, though, I don't think
that that is exclusive to Trump,
because the Clintons did that as well.
And I think they've taken over $2 million
from the Secret Service in terms of things that they've,
yeah, taxed them for.
God, you don't want to be the candidate
who doesn't rock up with your own personal airplane, do you?
What do you do?
You're just disqualified from applying.
You want to be the candidate who's also an Uber driver?
Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
He also had the most amazing-looking helmet, which actually--
[LAUGHTER]
What's your problem?
W, sum it.
Double meaning.
OK, yeah, I'm not that familiar with that time, but thanks.
He also had a really lovely, moist, rounded helmet.
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
They've found some of the under-fell bones,
and they've checked about the markings on them.
And some of them have evidence of cannibalism.
They've got teeth marks on them.
And then other ones have got scraping marks
where you can see they've been made into kind
of rudimentary tools.
So once their friends died, or the under-fell's died,
they would kind of turn them into tools and food.
That makes us so much sense.
Yeah, it's like an organization, yeah.
Would you like to be turned into a spade?
Yeah.
Well, I think my ribcage could be quite a nice tuckstack.
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(upbeat music)